Changelog - 5.1.0 Betas
=======================

Upcoming
--------

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

* `FRM-1158 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1158>`_\ : ``primeng`` styles being applied where they shouldn't be.

----

5.1.0-beta.11 (21/08/2020)
--------------------------

Features
^^^^^^^^

* `FRM-479 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-479>`_ - ``grid``\ : Added options to disable column resizing and/or column reordering.
* `FRM-1300 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1300>`_\ , `FRM-1301 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1301>`_ - ``grid``\ , ``tree-table``\ : Added option to discard cached state when columns have changed.

----

5.1.0-beta.10 (20/08/2020)
--------------------------

Breaking Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* `FRM-1099 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1099>`_\ : Environment property ``test`` renamed to ``mock``.

Features
^^^^^^^^

* `FRM-375 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-375>`_ - ``grid``\ : Added option to not fetch any data until the user requests it.
* `FRM-379 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-379>`_ - ``grid``\ : Added option to show total count.

----

5.1.0-beta.9 (19/08/2020)
-------------------------

Features
^^^^^^^^

* `FRM-1372 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1365>`_\ , `FRM-1365 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1365>`_ - ``grid``\ : You can now align a grid column's title and contents to the left, right or center

Changes
^^^^^^^

* `FRM-1372 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1372>`_ - ``grid``\ , ``tree-table``\ : Checkbox/boolean columns are now center-aligned.

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

* `FRM-861 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-861>`_ - ``grid``\ : "See more/less" button would select the item when in card (mobile) mode
* `FRM-501 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-501>`_ - ``grid``\ : Actions column would disappear after toggling ``*ngIf``
* `FRM-988 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-988>`_ - ``grid``\ : Checkbox would set its value to ``null`` after toggling

----

5.1.0-beta.6 (18/08/2020)
-------------------------

Dependency Updates
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``dependencies``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Dependency
     - Status
     - Version
   * - @sentry/browser
     - âś… Added
     - ``^5.21.1``


Features
^^^^^^^^

``common > error-monitoring``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


* `FRM-1360 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1360>`_\ : Implemented error monitoring using Sentry. More information can be found `here <https://viasoftfrontend.korp.com.br/pt/master/error-monitoring/setup/>`_.

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

``components > filter``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* `FRM-1366 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1366>`_\ : Fixed a bug that prevented a date filter from being cleared

``components > spinner``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* `FRM-796 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-796>`_\ : Fixed spinner causing an overflow

----

5.1.0-beta.5 (13/08/2020)
-------------------------

Dependency updates
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``dependencies``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Dependency
     - Status
     - Version
   * - @asymmetrik/ngx-leaflet
     - đź”„ Updated
     - ``^7.0.1``
   * - leaflet
     - đź”„ Updated
     - ``^1.6.0``


If you're still experiencing issues when running ``ngcc``\ , delete your ``package-lock.json`` file and try again.

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

``components > map``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


* `FRM-1369 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1369>`_\ : Fixed error when running ``ngcc``

----

5.1.0-beta.3 (13/08/2020)
-------------------------

Features
^^^^^^^^

``view-template``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* `FRM-1368 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1368>`_\ : Actions area will now correctly apply styles to a ``vs-button`` inside another component.

  * If you have more than one level of nesting, you might need to use the ``.vs-header-action`` class.
  * You can also disable this behaviour using the ``.disable-action-style`` class.

----

5.1.0-beta.2 (11/08/2020)
-------------------------

Features
^^^^^^^^

``common``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* `SDKBACK-270 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/SDKBACK-270>`_\ : Added External Authentication Service used to request a Google Access Token
