Changelog - 5.7.0 Betas
=======================

5.7.1-beta.10 (25/08/2021)
--------------------------

Features
^^^^^^^^

* `FRM-1748 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1748>`_ - ``common``\ : Added ``VsAuthenticationCanLoad`` class, which avoids errors related to ``RouteResolver`` calls being requested without SDK headers (authorization/company/userId).

Usage:

.. code-block:: typescript

   import { VsAuthenticationCanLoad } from '@viasoft/common';
   // ...
   const routes: Routes = [
       {
           path: 'my-path',
           component: MyComponent,
           canLoad: [VsAuthenticationCanLoad]
       },
       // ...
   ];

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

* `FRM-1740 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1740>`_ - ``common``\ : Licensing dialog could throw a "Cannot read property of undefined" error.

----

5.7.0-beta.9 (11/08/2021)
-------------------------

Breaking Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* `FRM-1440 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1440>`_ - ``text-editor``\ : Moved the ``text-editor`` component to a separate library

  * To migrate, simply install ``@viasoft/text-editor`` and fix all ``text-editor``\ -related imports

Dependency Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Dependency
     - Status
   * - ngx-quill
     - ❌ Removed
   * - quill
     - ❌ Removed

*Note: If your apps and/or libraries use the ``text-editor`` component, you shouldn't apply these changes.*

Housekeeping
^^^^^^^^^^^^

* `FRM-1754 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1754>`_\ : Removed unused files and libraries.

----

5.7.0-beta.8 (10/08/2021)
-------------------------

Breaking Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* `FRM-1441 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1441>`_ - ``map``\ : Moved the ``map`` component to a separate library

  * To migrate, simply install ``@viasoft/map`` and fix all ``map``\ -related imports

Dependency Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Dependency
     - Status
   * - @agm/core
     - ❌ Removed
   * - @asymmetrik/ngx-leaflet
     - ❌ Removed
   * - leaflet
     - ❌ Removed


*Note: If your apps and/or libraries use the ``map`` component, you shouldn't apply these changes.*

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

* `FRM-1737 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1737>`_ - ``grid``\ : Error message would show up instead of the "no result" message in very specific cases.
* `FRM-1719 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1719>`_\ : User could sometimes stay logged in even after their token had expired.
* `FRM-1694 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1694>`_ - ``grid``\ : "More actions" button would show up even without any actions inside.

----

5.7.0-beta.3 (22/06/2021)
-------------------------

Dependency Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Dependency
     - Status
     - Version
   * - @microsoft/signalr
     - 🔄 Updated
     - 5.0.7

Features
^^^^^^^^

* `FRM-1686 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1686>`_ - `common`: Custom services available for:

  * DataLivelyService
  * NotificationService

* `FRM-1686 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1686>`_ - ``common``\ : Websocket connections now have an ``AutomaticReconnect`` flag.
* `FRM-1686 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1686>`_ - ``common``\ : Notifying users about a new notification can now be done using ``NotificationService.notifyUser``.
* `FRM-1686 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1686>`_ - ``common``\ : Added ``shouldNotifyUser`` parameter to ``NotificationService.addNotification``\ , letting you notify users about a new notification (default ``true``\ ).

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

* `FRM-1686 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1686>`_ - ``common``\ : Internal subscriptions were not being unsubscribed after being used.
* `FRM-1686 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1686>`_ - ``common``\ : Only the first websocket notification was being showed.
* `FRM-1686 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1686>`_ - ``navigation``\ : Notification snackbar had low contrast on the action button.
* `FRM-1686 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1686>`_ - ``common``\ : ``DataLivelyNotificationUpdateIdInterceptor`` was replacing ``NotificationUpdateId`` header.

Housekeeping
^^^^^^^^^^^^

* `FRM-1686 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1686>`_ - ``common``\ : Performance improvements in ``VsCommonModule``.
