
Changelog - 6.1.0 Betas
=======================

6.1.2-beta.3 (22/09/2021)
-------------------------

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

* `FRM-1795 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1795>`_ - ``message-dialog``\ : Action buttons were center-aligned instead of right-aligned.

----

6.1.1-beta.2 (21/09/2021)
-------------------------

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

* `FRM-1794 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1794>`_ - ``checkbox``\ : Frame and ripple would get cut off after interaction in some very specific cases.

----

6.1.0-beta.1 (06/09/2021)
-------------------------

Breaking Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* 
  `FRM-1763 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1763>`_ - ``grid``\ : Renamed ``none`` option to ``center`` in ``VsGridColumnSettings.align``.

* 
  `FRM-1620 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1620>`_ - ``navigation``\ : Removed ``IItemMenuOptions.functionPath``.

Dependency Updates
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Dependency
     - Status
     - Version
   * - ``primeng``
     - 🔃 Updated
     - ``~12.1.0``


*Note: the ``~`` is important! It guarantees that only patch (\ ``x.x.X``\ ) versions can be installed automatically, whereas ``^`` allows for minor (\ ``x.X.x``\ ) versions to be installed as well.*

Features
^^^^^^^^

* `FRM-1465 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1465>`_ - ``common``\ : Added ``errorCodes`` property to ``VsUiErrorSettings``.

  * This property gives developers control over which HTTP error codes should automatically show an error dialog.
  * By default, the following error codes show a dialog: 401, 404 and 500.

Changes
^^^^^^^

* `FRM-1763 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1763>`_ - ``grid``\ , ``tree-table``\ : Visual refresh.
* `FRM-1763 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1763>`_\ : Refactored PrimeNG theme and removed styles that weren't being used by SDK components.

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

* `FRM-1763 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1763>`_ - ``grid``\ : Checkbox selection column could mess up the column size calculation.
* `FRM-1763 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/FRM-1763>`_ - ``grid``\ : Horizontal scrollbar could show up when it shouldn't.
