Changelog - 6.5.0 Betas
=======================

.. TODO: Decide whether or not we should merge SDKF-11

.. - `SDKF-11 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-11>`_ - `http`: You should remove all `HttpClientModule` imports is your modules. Multiple `HttpClientModule` were duplicating a lot of HttpInterceptors related code.
..   - Right now, if you use `VsHttpModule.forRoot` in your `app.module.ts`, `HttpClientModule` is already provided for all application


6.5.0-beta.30 (26/07/2024)
-------------------

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] `common`: License error when reopen a page after a long period of inactivty was fixed.

----

6.5.0-beta.22 (25/04/2023)
-------------------

Features
^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] `components`: `grid` Resize grid columns now works on Mobile / touch devices.

----

6.5.0-beta.17 (20/03/2023)
--------------------------

Features
^^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-91 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-91>`_ - `components`: `grid` now permits the use of a function that returns a string in the `sorting.useField`.

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-92 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-92>`_ - `common`: `message.service` now translates correctly.

----

6.5.0-beta.15 (20/02/2023)
-------------------------

Features
^^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-41 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-41>`_ - `navigation`: `VsNavbarService.searchInputEnter` event available, emitting a event whenever the user press Enter key inside navbar search input.

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] `components`: `grid` advancedFilter now stringifies numbers. This way problems related to decimal numbers won't happen anymore.

----

6.5.0-beta.14 (08/02/2023)
-------------------------

Breaking Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-15 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-15>`_ - `theme`: We refactored `@viasoft/theme` build. It shouldn't be a Breaking Change, but be aware and pay attention to possible style changes.
- `SDKF-48 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-48>`_ - `components`: `grid` now emits `selectionCleared` rather than `selectAll` when you click in "unselect all" checkbox.

Features
^^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-30 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-30>`_ - `components`: `autocomplete` now autofocus option if only a single option is available.

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-26 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-26>`_ - `navigation`: `portal-sidenav` style fixed.
- `SDKF-68 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-68>`_ - `components`: `grid` VSGrid checkbox column click no longer activates the `gridOpions.select` event.

----

6.5.0-beta.13 (07/12/2022)
-------------------------

Breaking Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-16 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-16>`_ - `components`: `vs-grid`.options.disableSorting was replaced by:

.. code-block:: typescript
  
  this.gridOptions.sorting = {
    useField: 'field', // it allows a custom fieldName for sorting
    disable: true,
  };

Features
^^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-16 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-16>`_ - `components`: `vs-grid.options.sorting.useField` added, allowing devs to provide a custom field name for sorting.
- `SDKF-27 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-27>`_ - `components`: `vs-autocomplete-select` focus is on the input, allowing keyboard shortcuts (Ctrl + A). It means that, vs-select only override the following keys' behaviour:
  - ArrowUp;
  - ArrowDown;
  - Enter;


Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-27 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-27>`_ - `components`: `vs-autocomplete-select` now handles when field is programatically cleared (it wouldn't clear the autocomplete input value).

----

6.5.0-beta.12 (18/11/2022)
-------------------------

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-25 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-25>`_ - `common`: Company request now gets up to 100 companies (used to be only 10).

----

6.5.0-beta.10 (16/11/2022)
-------------------------

Features
^^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-27 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-27>`_ - `components`: `vs-autocomplete` add `autofocusOnLoad` input, allowing you to autofocus field on load.
- `SDKF-10 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-10>`_ - `components`: `vs-grid` now has a `pageSize` option, so you can provide a custom pageSize at any time.

----

6.5.0-beta.8 (04/11/2022)
-------------------------

Improvements
^^^^^^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-10 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-10>`_ - Bunch of lint fixes, might improve performance.

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-8 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-8>`_ - `components`: `vs-autocomplete` fix clear button when value is `0`.

----

6.5.0-beta.5 (01/11/2022)
-------------------------

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-8 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-8>`_ - `components`: `vs-autocomplete` now works with options which the value is `0`.

----

6.5.0-beta.3 (27/10/2022)
-------------------------

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-4 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-4>`_ - `components`: `vs-autocomplete` options won't overflow horizontally anymore.

----

6.5.0-beta.1 (24/10/2022)
-------------------------

Breaking Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-4 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-4>`_ - `components`: `vs-autocomplete` was re-made from the ground up, being totally refactored to be more user/dev friendly.
  - Main Changes in autocomplete component:

    - `controlName` replaced by `formControlName`;
    - `options` property was removed;
    - `get` property is the new way to provide a getItems function;
    - `getName` property is the new way to provide a getItemName function;
    - **Autocomplete now works with a simple FormControl, rather than a FormGroup (key / value)**

  - A bunch of classes/components/interfaces were renamed:
    - `FormElement` renamed to `VsFormEventManipulator<ValueType>`
    - `FormManipulator` renamed to `VsFormManipulator<ValueType>`
    - `FormInput` renamed to `VsFormInputManipulator`
    - Legacy Select
      
      - `vs-autocomplete-select` renamed to `vs-autocomplete-select-legacy`
      - `VsAutocompleteSelectComponent` renamed to `VsLegacyAutocompleteSelectComponent`
      - `VsAutocompleteOutput` renamed to `VsLegacyAutocompleteOutput`
- `SDKF-4 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-4>`_ - `components`: `vs-button` `autofocus` now works independent of the button `model` property.
  
Features
^^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-4 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-4>`_ - `components`: `VsFormInputManipulator` now has `onValueChange` subject, allowing to subscribe to new values and to know whether it was internally/externally set.

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-4 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-4>`_ - `components`: `vs-select` now correctly doesn't show clear button when value is `0`.

Housekeeping
^^^^^^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-4 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-4>`_ - `components`: `vs-button` was totally refactored to be more performative

