Changelog - 6.6.0 Betas
=======================

6.6.0-beta.135 (24/07/2024)
-------------------

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] `common`: License error when reopen a page after a long period of inactivty was fixed.

----


6.6.0-beta.125 (09/10/2023)
---------------------------

Changes
^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-193 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-193>`_ - `components`: Adjusted icon sizes within `datepicker`.

____

6.6.0-beta.123 (14/09/2023)
---------------------------

Features
^^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-166 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-166>`_ / `SDKF-167 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-167>`_ - `components`: Added `gridCardActionsTopTemplate` and `gridCardActionsBottomTemplate` to the `grid` component. These new templates allow for the positioning of `grid` actions either at the top or the bottom of the `grid-card` in mobile layout.

  .. raw:: html

    <span style="font-weight: bold;">Usage Example:</span>

  .. code-block:: html+ng2

    <vs-grid 
      [gridCardActionsTopTemplate]="gridCardActionsTopTemplate"
      [gridCardActionsBottomTemplate]="gridCardActionsBottomTemplate"
    >
    </vs-grid>

    <ng-template #gridCardActionsTopTemplate let-data="data">
      your actions here...
    </ng-template>

    <ng-template #gridCardActionsBottomTemplate let-data="data">
      your actions here...
    </ng-template>

  .. raw:: html

    <span style="font-weight: bold;">Important Note</span>

  When utilizing ``gridCardActionsBottomTemplate``, be aware that it will replace the default `actions` of the `grid`.

- `SDKF-181 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-181>`_ - `theme`: New classes have been introduced to vertically align the `vs-checkbox` with forms when the `vsFormLayout` is set to ``horizontal``.
  
  - ``horizontal-form-align-center``: Aligns the checkbox to the center of the form.
  - ``horizontal-form-align-bottom``: Aligns the checkbox to the bottom of the form.

____

6.6.0-beta.121 (13/09/2023)
---------------------------

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-157 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-157>`_ - `common`: Fixed a problem with `translations` that were not working correctly alongside route guards. This adjustment ensures that `translations` are applied correctly.
- [NO-ISSUE] - `components`: Fixed an issue where the click event on Grid actions was still triggering even when the disabled attribute was active.

____

6.6.0-beta.119 (06/09/2023)
---------------------------

Breaking Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `components`: The `disabled` method for both `grid` and `tree-table` has been updated. It now requires a function that returns a boolean value.

  .. raw:: html

    <span style="font-weight: bold;">Important Note</span>

  If there is a need to dynamically refresh the ``disabled``, ``actions``, or ``headerActions`` in these components, different approaches should be used for `tree-table` and `grid`:
    
  - For `tree-table`: Invoke the ``refreshActionsSubject`` subject.

    .. code-block:: html+ng2

      <vs-tree-table [refreshActionsSubject]="refreshActionsSubject"></vs-tree-table>
    
    .. code-block:: typescript

      public refreshActionsSubject = new Subject<void>();

      private yourFunction() {
        this.refreshActionsSubject.next();
      }
  
  - For `grid`: Call the ``refreshActions`` method available in `VsGridOptions`. 
  
  Both will ensure that all `actions` reflect the most current state and attributes defined in the options.

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `components`: Added a correction ensuring that the `disabled` attribute on `grid` actions functions as expected. With this fix, the `disabled` state of actions is properly set based on the attribute value provided to each action.

____

6.6.0-beta.116 (04/09/2023)
---------------------------

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `components`: Fixed the issue with the refresh for `action` conditions within the `grid`. With this correction, the conditions for `actions` are updated correctly.
- [NO-ISSUE] - `theme`: Fixed the layout issue in `autocomplete-chips` when using ``vertical`` or ``horizontal`` `vsFormLayout`. This adjustment ensures that line breaks are executed correctly.

____

6.6.0-beta.114 (01/09/2023)
---------------------------

Changes
^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-163 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-163>`_ - `components`: The vertical scroll within `tree-table` is now always visible (if necessary). No longer need to scroll horizontally to the right for the vertical scroll to appear.

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `theme`: Fixed a vertical alignment issue with `mat-chip` in `autocomplete-chips` for both ``vertical`` and ``horizontal`` `vsFormLayout.`
- [NO-ISSUE] - `components`: Implemented a correction related to the `defaultAdvancedFilter` of the `grid`. Now, the ``condition`` of the `defaultAdvancedFilter` is always converted to upper case. This fix ensures that the ``condition`` can be specified in either upper or lower case without issues.

____

6.6.0-beta.108 (28/08/2023)
---------------------------

Features
^^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-159 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-159>`_ - `components`: The `advancedFilter` of the `Grid` now accepts initial values.

  .. raw:: html

    <span style="font-weight: bold;">Example:</span>

  .. code-block:: typescript

    this.gridOptions = new VsGridOptions();
      
      this.gridOptions.defaultAdvancedFilter = {
        condition: 'and',
        rules: [
          {
            field: 'name',
            operator: 'ends_with',
            type: 'string',
            value: 'Value from defaultAdvancedFilter'
          }
        ]
      };

  .. raw:: html

      <span style="font-weight: bold;">Important Note</span>

  When there is cached data available for the `advancedFilter`, the `grid` will prioritize and use the cached values over the initial values provided through `defaultAdvancedFilter`.

____

6.6.0-beta.103 (22/08/2023)
---------------------------

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-147 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-147>`_ - `components`: Fixed an issue with detectChanges within `forms`, effectively resolving the "ExpressionChangedAfterItHasBeenChecked" `error`, that was occurring in some forms.
- [NO-ISSUE] - `components`: Fixed rendering issues with `headerActions` in both the `grid` and `tree-table`. Now, if a `headerAction` has a condition, it will render correctly based on that condition.

____

6.6.0-beta.100 (22/08/2023)
---------------------------

Update Dependencies
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-134 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-134>`_ - Updated the **@viasoft/datepicker** package.

  .. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Dependency
      - Status
      - Version
    * - @viasoft/datepicker
      - 🔄 Updated
      - ``1.0.2``

____

6.6.0-beta.97 (15/08/2023)
--------------------------

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `components`: Fixed issues related to the calculation of widths for `actions` of the `grid`.

____

6.6.0-beta.95 (14/08/2023)
--------------------------

Features
^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `components`: `headerActions` have been introduced to the `tree-table`.

  .. raw:: html

    <span style="font-weight: bold;">Usage Example:</span>

  .. code-block:: typescript

    rightHeaderActions = [
      {
        icon: 'check',
        callback: () => {}
      }
    ]

    leftHeaderActions = [
      {
        icon: 'check',
        callback: () => {}
      }
    ]

  .. code-block:: html+ng2

    <vs-tree-table
      [rightHeaderActions]="rightHeaderActions"
      [leftHeaderActions]="leftHeaderActions"
    >
    </vs-tree-table>

  .. raw:: html

      <span style="font-weight: bold;">Important Note</span>

  If there's a need to refresh the `actions` or `headerActions` dynamically, must be invoked the ``refreshActionsSubject`` subject available in `tree-table`. This subject ensures that all `actions` reflect the most current state and attributes defined in the options.

  .. code-block:: html+ng2

    <vs-tree-table [refreshActionsSubject]="refreshActionsSubject"></vs-tree-table>
  
  .. code-block:: typescript

    public refreshActionsSubject = new Subject<void>();

    private yourFunction() {
      this.refreshActionsSubject.next();
    }

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `components`: Implemented corrections to the calculation of widths for `headerActions` in the `grid`.

Breaking Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `components`: The `refreshActions` method of the grid has been updated to accurately reflect the changes in `actions / headerActions` following any modifications. It is important to call this method whenever there are changes to `actions` or `headerActions`.

____

6.6.0-beta.89 (11/08/2023)
--------------------------

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `theme`: Fixed an issue where the asterisk indicating the `required` attribute was not displaying correctly on `vs-textarea` in both ``vertical`` and ``horizontal`` `vsFormLayout`.

____

6.6.0-beta.86 (10/08/2023)
--------------------------

Features
^^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-146 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-146>`_ - `components`: `headerActions` have been introduced to the `grid`. These can be placed on the upper left or upper right side of the `grid`. The `headerActions` support the same attributes as the `grid` `actions`

  .. raw:: html

    <span style="font-weight: bold;">Usage Example:</span>

  .. code-block:: typescript

    this.gridOptions = new VsGridOptions();

    this.gridOptions.leftActions = [ 
      {
        icon: 'check',
        callback() => {}
      }
    ]

    this.gridOptions.rightActions = [ 
      {
        icon: 'check',
        callback() => {}
      }
    ]

  .. raw:: html

    <span style="font-weight: bold;">Important Note</span>

  If there's a need to refresh the `actions` or `headerActions` dynamically, must be invoked the ``refreshActions`` method available in `VsGridOptions`. This method ensures that all `actions` reflect the most current state and attributes defined in the options.

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `components`: Implemented further fixes to the `required` attribute based on the changes introduced in version **6.6.0-beta.82**. These adjustments were necessary to address and correct ongoing functionality issues with the `required` attribute.

____

6.6.0-beta.82 (10/08/2023)
--------------------------

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `theme`: Fixes have been made to ensure the correct functioning of the `required` attribute in forms, under both ``vertical`` and ``horizontal`` `vsFormLayout`.

____

6.6.0-beta.80 (09/08/2023)
--------------------------

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `components`: Fixed an issue with the `required` attributes of forms not functioning correctly in both ``vertical`` and ``horizontal`` `vsFormLayout.`

____

6.6.0-beta.78 (09/08/2023)
--------------------------

Features
^^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-137 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-137>`_ - `components`: The `condition` of the `grid` now supports promises as return values.

Changes
^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-145 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-145>`_ - `components`: Modified the color of the `tab-group` label to be more "highlighted".

____

6.6.0-beta.75 (04/08/2023)
--------------------------

Features
^^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-144 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-144>`_ - `theme`: New classes have been introduced to vertically align the `vs-checkbox` with forms when the `vsFormLayout` is set to ``vertical``.

  - ``vertical-form-align-center``: Aligns the checkbox to the center of the form.
  - ``vertical-form-align-top``: Aligns the checkbox to the top of the form.
  - ``vertical-form-align-bottom``: Aligns the checkbox to the bottom of the form.

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `theme`: Fixed the alignment of the `vs-checkbox` when used as either `suffix` or `prefix`, ensuring proper centering in both ``vertical`` and ``horizontal`` `vsFormLayout`.
- [NO-ISSUE] - `theme`: Adjusted the vertical alignment of form labels when `vsFormLayout` is set to ``horizontal``.

____

6.6.0-beta.71 (03/08/2023)
--------------------------

Features
^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `theme`: Added support for the `required` attribute, which appends an asterisk to the form label, for both ``vertical`` and ``horizontal`` `vsFormLayout`.

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `theme`: Implemented layout adjustments to center the elements within the form fields for both ``vertical`` and ``horizontal`` `vsFormLayout`.

Changes
^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `navigation`: The colors of the sidenav has been updated.
- [NO-ISSUE] - `theme`: Spacing adjustments have been made to `forms` with `vsFormLayout` set to ``vertical``.

Notes
^^^^^

- Some of the changes made in **6.6.0-beta.65** regarding hintLabel have been reverted, as they are no longer necessary after the spacing adjustments.

____

6.6.0-beta.65 (02/08/2023)
--------------------------

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `components`: Adjusted the layout of `forms` when `vsFormLayout` is set to ``vertical`` ensuring the layout is correct whether or not `hintLabel` is present.
- [NO-ISSUE] - `theme`: Layout corrections have been applied to `search-input` and `dropdown` components for both ``vertical`` and ``horizontal`` `vsFormLayout` settings.

____

6.6.0-beta.61 (01/08/2023)
--------------------------

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `navigation`: Fixed the `vsFormLayout` for the companySelect in the `navbar`. The `vsFormLayout` for this select has been set to ``legacy`` to ensure that it always maintains the same behavior.
- [NO-ISSUE] - `components`: Performance improvements have been made to the `forms`.

- [NO-ISSUE] - `theme`: Fixed layout issues with ``mat-form-field-infix`` in `vsFormLayout` ``vertical`` on the following forms: 
  
  - vs-autocomplete-chips
  - vs-chip-list
  - vs-dropdown.

____

6.6.0-beta.56 (24/07/2023)
--------------------------

Features
^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `http`: Added the `ApiVersion` header, required for the newer versions of `Viasoft.Core`.

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `components`: Fixed issues involving the appearance and placeholder in forms when `vsFormLayout` is set to ``legacy``.

____

6.6.0-beta.53 (21/07/2023)
--------------------------

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `components`: Fixed translations of placeholders when `vsFormLayout` is set to ``legacy``.
- [NO-ISSUE] - `components`: Adjusted the form height for `vs-textarea` with ``rows=1`` when `vsFormLayout` is ``vertical``.

____

6.6.0-beta.49 (21/07/2023)
--------------------------

Features
^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `components`: `autocomplete-chips` now supports the required attribute. When set, a visual indicator in the form of an asterisk (``*``) is appended to the form label, signaling that it is a required field.

____

6.6.0-beta.47 (20/07/2023)
--------------------------

Features
^^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-132 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-132>`_ / `SDKF-133 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-133>`_ - `components`: `VsFormLayoutDirective` has been added. This directive allows for easy modification of form layouts. The available layouts are: ``legacy``, ``vertical``, and ``horizontal``.
 
  * The `VsFormLayoutDirective` has been integrated with the following form components:
  
    - VsAutocompleteSelect
    - VsDatepicker
    - VsInput
    - VsSearchInput
    - VsSelect
    - VsTextarea

  - To utilize the `VsFormLayoutDirective`, ensure that you have imported the `VsFormModule` from ``@viasoft/components`` in the module of the component where the directive will be used.
    
    .. code-block:: typescript

      import { VsFormModule } from '@viasoft/components';

  - By applying the directive directly on a form or its parent element, you can change the layout for form components. If the directive is placed on a parent element, all form components within will inherit the specified layout.

    .. raw:: html

      <span style="font-weight: bold;">Example:</span>
    
    .. code-block:: html
      
      <form>
        <vs-input vsFormLayout="vertical"></vs-input>
        <vs-input vsFormLayout="horizontal"></vs-input>
        <vs-textarea vsFormLayout="legacy"></vs-textarea>
      </form>

      <form vsFormLayout="vertical">
        <vs-input></vs-input>
        <vs-input></vs-input>
        <vs-textarea></vs-textarea>
      </form>

  - Additionally, you can set the default `vsFormLayout` for your application by including it within `VsAppCoreModule.forRoot` in your ``app.module``.
    
    .. code-block:: typescript

      import { VsAppCoreModule } from '@viasoft/app-core';

      @NgModule({
        imports: [
          VsAppCoreModule.forRoot({
            formLayout: 'vertical'
          })
        ]
      })

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `common`: Resolved an issue with the width behavior in .mat-form-field-infix when using the percentage width classes (``w-...``).

____

6.6.0-beta.38 (13/07/2023)
--------------------------

Features
^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `theme`: Two new utility classes have been introduced to enhance flexibility in styling and layout.
  
  - `w-expand`: allows an element to take up any available space by setting its flex value to auto.
  - `w-shrink`: resets the flex value to its initial state.
 
- [NO-ISSUE] - `common`: `VsSentryIntegration.sessionReplayInit` method has been enhanced to accept an additional optional parameter: ``serviceUrlPrefix``. This prefix is used for the sentryConfiguration call, forming a URL in the pattern ``{backendUrl}/{serviceUrlPrefix}/sentry/configuration``.
  
  .. raw:: html

      <span style="font-weight: bold;">Example:</span>

  .. code-block:: typescript

    VsSentryIntegration.sessionReplayInit(environment, 'showcase');

____

6.6.0-beta.34 (10/07/2023)
--------------------------

Changes
^^^^^^^
- [NO-ISSUE] - `common`: The ``@sentry/angular-ivy`` has been added as a dependency to the ``@viasoft/common``.

____

6.6.0-beta.28 (10/07/2023)
--------------------------

Features
^^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-124 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-124>`_ - `common`: `Sentry's` `session replay <https://docs.sentry.io/product/session-replay>`_ feature has been added.

  .. raw:: html

      <span style="font-weight: bold; font-size: 18px">Implementing VsSentry's Session Replay</span>

  * Start by importing the VsSentryIntegration module in your main application file.

    .. code-block:: typescript

        import { VsSentryIntegration } from '@viasoft/common';

  * Make sure to include the ``packageJson`` within the ``VsAppCoreModule.forRoot`` in your ``app.module``.

    .. code-block:: typescript
      
      import { VsAppCoreModule } from '@viasoft/app-core';
      import * as packageJson from 'path/to/package.json';

      @NgModule({
        imports: [
          VsAppCoreModule.forRoot({
            packageJson
          })
        ]
      })

  * To initialize VsSentry's session replay feature, invoke the sessionReplayInit method from VsSentryIntegration and pass the environment as an argument. (In the ``6.6.0-beta.38`` version, a new parameter was added to this method).

    .. code-block:: typescript

      VsSentryIntegration.sessionReplayInit(environment);

- [NO-ISSUE] - `theme`: New "width" classes have been added to define specific widths for elements, ranging from 1/1 to 16/16 of the parent container's width.

  .. raw:: html

    <span style="font-weight: bold; font-size: 18px">How to use these width classes:</span>

  * Width Classes:

    The classes follow the format w-x/y, where x represents the fraction of space you want the element to take up, and y stands for the whole.
    
    .. raw:: html

      <span style="font-weight: bold;">Examples:</span>

    - `w-1/12`: Represents 1/12 of the parent container's width.
    - `w-10/12`: Represents 10/12 (or 5/6) of the parent container's width.
    - `w-1/2`: Represents half of the parent container's width.

  * Responsive Classes:

    Responsive classes are prefixed based on screen size:

    - `xs`: Applies to screens with max-width: 767.999px
    - `sm`: Applies to screens between min-width: 768px and max-width: 991.999px
    - `md`: Applies to screens between min-width: 992px and max-width: 1199.999px
    - `lg`: Applies to screens with min-width: 1200px

    .. raw:: html

      <span style="font-weight: bold;">Example:</span>
    
    - `xs:w-3/4`: On smaller screens (up to 767.999px), the element will take up three-quarters of the parent container's width.

  .. raw:: html

    <span style="font-weight: bold;">Usage Example:</span>

  .. code-block:: html

    <div class="w-1/1">
      <vs-input class="xs:w-3/4 sm:w-1/2"></vs-input>
    </div>
        
----

6.6.0-beta.24 (22/06/2023)
--------------------------

Changes
^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `common`: "Updating License" modal now is hidden by default, but you can set it to show up using `VsAppCoreModule.forRoot.showUpdateLicenseModal` / `VsCommonModule.forRoot.showUpdateLicenseModal`.

----

6.6.0-beta.20 (21/06/2023)
--------------------------

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `components`: `quick-filter` now correctly disallow go to next page if user is already in the last page.
- [NO-ISSUE] - `components`: `grid` filter is removed from DOM correctly when you press "Esc" in a select-modal

----

6.6.0-beta.19 (20/06/2023)
--------------------------

Features
^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `components`: `VsFormValidatorService.validateForm` now has `modalTitle` / `modalErrorTemplate` / `modalActions`.

----

6.6.0-beta.16 (12/06/2023)
--------------------------

Features
^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `navigation`: Fix a bug when using `authorizationService.refreshPermissions` in `navbar-sidenav.component`.

----

6.6.0-beta.12 (09/06/2023)
--------------------------

Breaking Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `common`: `authorizationStorageService.userPermissionsAfterLogin` was replaced to `authorizationStorageService.refreshPermissions`.

Features
^^^^^^^^

- `PROP-1305 <http://jira.korp.com.br/browse/PROP-1305>`_ - `components`: `VsFormValidatorService` / `vsFormPath` directive added, so developers can easily show an error modal for the form, allowing users to navigate to each error field.
- [NO-ISSUE] - `common`: `authorizationService.refreshPermissions` added.

----

6.6.0-beta.6 (26/05/2023)
-------------------------

Breaking Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- `SDKF-49 <https://korp.youtrack.cloud/issue/SDKF-49>`_ - `components`: `grid` `GetSelection` type changed and now has cache, rather than being called by Angular is now called internally.

----

6.6.0-beta.5 (16/05/2023)
-------------------------

Breaking Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `components`: `button` In `nav-mode` `tooltip` prop was having the `label` functionality. Now `label` always behaviours like `label` and `tooltip` always behaviours like `tooltip`.
  - So if you want the previous behavior, you should replace from `tooltip` to `label` wherever button is in `nav-mode` (inside of `sidenav-view-template` / `tabs-view-template` components)

Features
^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] - `components`: `button` `navMode` property now is public, so you can easily choose whether or not you want the button to behavior as navMode.
