Changelog - 9.0.0 Betas
=======================

9.0.0-beta.16 (21/02/2025)
--------------------------

Features
^^^^^^^^

- [NO-ISSUE] `common`: Add `firstUntilDestroyed` as a rxjs method.
- [NO-ISSUE] `common`: Add `nameof<MinhaClasse>().propriedade`, allowing you to type property names.
- [NO-ISSUE] `common`: Add `VsCommonModule.forStandalone({translates: {}})` method.
- [NO-ISSUE] `input`: Add `shouldHideHintLabelContainer` @Input().
- [NO-ISSUE] `spinner`: Add `center` @Input().
- [NO-ISSUE] `datepicker`: Add `isIMaskLazy` @Input().

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- [SDKF-201] `components`: `grid` Fix in actions size calculation.
- [SDKF-201] `components`: `grid` Fix in infinite loading when used in a ChangeDetectionStrategy.OnPush component.
- [NO-ISSUE] `components`: `forms` Fix focusManagerService for mat-select.
- [NO-ISSUE] `components`: `dialog` Fix in actions selector.
- [NO-ISSUE] `components`: Fixing a bunch of memory leaks.
- [NO-ISSUE] `components`: `grid` actionSizeLimit action now doesn't emit `onRowClick` when clicked.

____

9.0.0-beta.8 (05/12/2024)
--------------------------

Features
^^^^^^^^

- [SDKF-198] `navigation`: `vs-navigation-view` now has `hideSidenavMenu` @Input;

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- [SDKF-191] `components`: `dialog` now handles when actions has multiple button[model=icon] / icon;

____

9.0.0-beta.7 (05/12/2024)
--------------------------

Breaking Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- [SDKF-183] `components`: `grid` / `tree-table` `editManagerService` is now signal based, so beware for possible breaking changes.

Features
^^^^^^^^

- [SDKF-183] `components`: `grid` / `tree-table` `editRowOptions.onRowEdit` / `editRowOptions.onRowsEdit` now has a trigger parameter, allowing you to know why edit was saved.
- [SDKF-183] `components`: `grid` / `tree-table` `editRowOptions.onCancelEdit` added, allowing you to know why edit was canceled.
- [SDKF-183] `components`: `grid` now has a `footer` ng-content.

____

9.0.0-beta.6 (02/12/2024)
--------------------------

This release is focused around updating to Angular 18. It is crucial that you follow these steps in this exact order when updating your apps and libraries.

Before Updating
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Update your Node.JS to version `20.12.2`.
  - We recommend using `NVM` to work simultaneously between old/new apps

    - ``nvm install 20.12.2``
    - ``nvm use 20.12.2``

Also, install the latest versions of global packages (like @angular/cli / @angular/schematics).
  - ``npm i -g @angular/cli@18.2.2``
  - ``npm i -g @angular-devkit/schematics@18.2.2 @angular-devkit/schematics-cli@18.2.2``

Follow these steps to migrate to Angular 18
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
We recommend first updating all projects that are on version <= 8.0.x according to the `guide <https://sdk-frontend-documentation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/changelogs/beta/8_0_0.html>`_.

Next, follow the `tutorial <https://angular.dev/update-guide?v=17.0-18.0&l=1>`_ to update from version v17 to v18.

- The only CLI commands should be:
  
  .. code-block:: sh

    ng update @angular/core@18 @angular/cli@18 --force
    ng update @angular/material@18 --force

.. raw:: html

Update Dependencies
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Dependency
     - Status
     - Version
     - Documentation
   * - @angular/animations
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``^18.2.2``
     - `angular/animations <https://github.com/angular/angular#readme>`_
   * - @angular/cdk
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``^18.2.2``
     - `angular/cdk <https://github.com/angular/components#readme>`_
   * - @angular/common
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``^18.2.2``
     - `angular/common <https://github.com/angular/angular#readme>`_
   * - @angular/compiler
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``^18.2.2``
     - `angular/compiler <https://github.com/angular/angular#readme>`_
   * - @angular/core
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``^18.2.2``
     - `angular/core <https://github.com/angular/angular#readme>`_
   * - @angular/forms
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``^18.2.2``
     - `angular/forms <https://github.com/angular/angular#readme>`_
   * - @angular/material
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``^18.2.2``
     - `angular/material <https://github.com/angular/components#readme>`_
   * - @angular/platform-browser
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``^18.2.2``
     - `angular/platform-browser <https://github.com/angular/angular#readme>`_
   * - @angular/platform-browser-dynamic
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``^18.2.2``
     - `angular/platform-browser <https://github.com/angular/angular#readme>`_
   * - @angular/router
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``^18.2.2``
     - `angular/router <https://github.com/angular/angular/tree/main/packages/router>`_
   * - @microsoft/signalr
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``~8.0.7``
     - `microsoft/signalr <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/release-notes/aspnetcore-8.0?view=aspnetcore-8.0>`_
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``~15.0.0``
     - `ngx-translate/core <https://github.com/ngx-translate/core/blob/master/README.md>`_
   * - @sentry/angular-ivy
     - ❌ Removed
     -
     -
   * - @sentry/angular
     - ✅ Added
     - ``~8.28.0``
     - `@sentry/angular <https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/javascript/guides/angular/>`_
   * - @sentry/browser
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``~8.28.0``
     - `@sentry/browser <https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/javascript/guides/angular/>`_
   * - @viasoft/datepicker
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``~9.0.1``
   * - @viasoft/fontawesome-pro
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``~6.4.8``
     - `viasoft/fontawesome-pro <https://sdk-frontend-documentation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ 
   * - angular-imask
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``~7.6.1``
     - `angular-imask <https://github.com/uNmAnNeR/imaskjs/tree/master/packages/angular-imask>`_
   * - core-js
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``~3.38.1``
     - `core-js <https://github.com/zloirock/core-js>`_
   * - dompurify
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``~3.1.6``
     - `dompurify <https://www.npmjs.com/package/dompurify>`_
   * - imask
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``~7.6.1``
     - `imask <https://imask.js.org/guide.html>`_
   * - jwt-decode
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``^4.0.0``
     - `jwt-decode <https://github.com/auth0/jwt-decode#readme>`_
   * - primeng
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``~17.18.9``
     - `primeng <https://primefaces.org/primeng/setup>`_
   * - single-spa
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``^6.0.3``
     - `single-spa <https://single-spa.js.org/docs/getting-started-overview>`_
   * - single-spa-angular
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``^9.2.0``
     - `single-spa-angular <https://single-spa.js.org/docs/getting-started-overview>`_
   * - tslib
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``^2.7.0``
     - `tslib <https://github.com/microsoft/tslib>`_
   * - ua-parser-js
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``~1.0.38``
     - `ua-parser-js <https://github.com/faisalman/ua-parser-js>`_
   * - zone.js
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``~0.14.10``
     - `zone.js <https://www.npmjs.com/package/zone.js?activeTab=readme>`_

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Dev dependency
     - Status
     - Version
     - Documentation
   * - @angular-builders/custom-webpack
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``~18.0.0``
     - `@angular-builders/custom-webpack <https://github.com/just-jeb/angular-builders?tab=readme-ov-file#readme>`_
   * - @angular-devkit/build-angular
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``^18.2.12``
     - `@angular-devkit/build-angular <https://github.com/angular/angular-cli>`_
   * - @angular-eslint/builder
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``18.3.0``
     - `angular-eslint/builder <https://github.com/angular-eslint/angular-eslint#readme>`_
   * - @angular-eslint/eslint-plugin
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``18.3.0``
     - `angular-eslint/eslint-plugin <https://github.com/angular-eslint/angular-eslint#readme>`_
   * - @angular-eslint/eslint-plugin-template
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``18.3.0``
     - `angular-eslint/eslint-plugin-template <https://github.com/angular-eslint/angular-eslint#readme>`_
   * - @angular-eslint/schematics
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``18.3.0``
     - `angular-eslint/schematics <https://github.com/angular-eslint/angular-eslint#readme>`_
   * - @angular-eslint/template-parser
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``18.3.0``
     - `angular-eslint/template-parser <https://github.com/angular-eslint/angular-eslint#readme>`_
   * - @angular/cli
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``^18.2.2``
     - `@angular/cli <https://github.com/angular/angular-cli>`_
   * - @angular/compiler-cli
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``^18.2.2``
     - `angular/compiler-cli <https://github.com/angular/angular/tree/main/packages/compiler-cli>`_
   * - @angular/language-service
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``^18.2.2``
     - `angular/language-service <https://github.com/angular/angular#readme>`_
   * - @types/lodash
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``^4.17.7``
     - `types/lodash <https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped/>`_
   * - @viasoft/testing
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``4.0.4``
     - `viasoft/testing <link>`_
   * - cypress
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``~13.15.2``
     - `cypress <https://docs.cypress.io/guides/references/migration-guide>`_
   * - ng-packagr
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``~18.2.1``
     - `ng-packagr <https://github.com/ng-packagr/ng-packagr>`_
   * - prettier
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``~3.3.3``
     - `prettier <https://prettier.io>`_
   * - typescript
     - 🔄 Updated
     - ``~5.5.4``
     - `typescript <https://www.typescriptlang.org/>`_

Breaking Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- `Angular Material` theming has changed a lot, we are still using v2 (rather than v3) via m2-* functions. Beware possible breaking changes
- `@viasoft/theming/config" as config` won't export most of the vsTheme variables, use `@viasoft/theming/variables` instead;
- `vs-search-input` now implements `FormManipulator`, so `controlName` has changed to `formControlName`
- [SDKF-178] - `common`: `VS_AVOID_SHOWING_FILTER_ICON_IN_GRID` altered to `VS_SHOULD_SHOW_FILTER_ICON_IN_GRID`, now grid / tree-table will not show its filter icon by default.
- [SDKF-181] `components`: `grid` edit row's icon has changed.
- [APPBUILDER-133] `components`: `header` height has changed, it may cause scroll changes mainly when header is not at the top of the screen.
- [SDKF-177] `common`: `navbar.searchInput` theme has changed.

Features
^^^^^^^^

- [SDKF-173] - `vs-drawer` component added, replacing mat-drawer's functionality.
- [SDKF-174] `components`: `grid` now has a `loaded` @output
- [SDKF-175] `components`: `grid` now only emits `options.select` event after all select process (not at the start as before).
- [SDKF-184] `components`: `label-link` normalization function now are exported via common (`normalizeHrefForPortal` / `checkIfIsExternalLink`).
- [SDKF-179] `components`: `grid / tree-table` now has a `compactFilterMode`, removing filter line and adding a float mode (integrated with the header)

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- [SDKF-174] `components`: `grid.actionsSizeLimit` always showing ... butotn fixed.
- [SDKF-176] `common`: partial selection in input / textarea fixed.
- [SDKF-192] `common`: `currency` mask now handles `undefined` / `null` values correctly.
- [SDKF-185] `common`: `currency` mask now pre-formatted values correctly.
- [SDKF-187] `components`: `input / textarea` handling `ngModelOptions` correctly.